>>If you're a devotee
of Egyptology,
you've likely seen "The
Mystery of the Sphinx"
on the Discovery Channel, which
featured Dr. Robert Schoch's
research as to the
true age of the Sphinx.
In our interview
with Dr. Schoch,
he delves further into the
subject of ancient sites
in sharing his
views as to how he
believes these sites were used.
More so, he says
these sacred sites
were chosen because of
their mystical properties
and only enhanced
by the ancients
in building some of the
world's greatest wonders
on top of them.
>>I'm noticing a really
interesting trend
at the conference this year.
And when I was
listening to you talk,
it was exemplifying this a bit.
And that is that the scientific
community of yourself
and some of your
compadres here have
begun looking at
the notion that what
we call the sacred sites
may actually be aligned more
with natural
phenomena-- bumped up
electromagnetic
fields, for example.
Can you talk a little bit about
that from your own experience
and what some of the
ramifications of that are?
>>Well, from my own
experience-- as a geologist,
I always wondered
why do you have
sacred sites in certain spots,
why were-- in some cases--
the ancient peoples going
through extraordinary efforts
to move blocks to
a certain spot.
I mean, why didn't
they just build
where it was easier to
build-- that type of thing.
I always thought there
must be something--
there must be some reason.
There must be some
rational reason
why they were
building where they
were and not anywhere else.
And I think that what we're
finding with this geomagnetism,
for instance, and also
other physical parameters--
but right now, we
seem to know the most
about geomagnetic fluctuations--
that this, in fact, affects us.
And we are electrical organisms.
We are affected by magnetic
and electrical fields.
We realize that at a very
fundamental, cellular level.
And to me, it makes sense,
tied in with other research,
that this does
affect consciousness,
does affect levels
of perception,
does affect what
some people refer
to as paranormal phenomena,
cyclical phenomena.
And what they were doing--
I believe at this point,
at least as a
working hypothesis--
is that they were
finding sites that
seemed to enhance
certain types of-- I'll
call it cyclical
phenomena, cyclical effects
and, in some cases, taking
existing site like that
and then further
building upon it
with the sacred architecture,
with the megalithic structures,
for instance, in various
cases, to further enhance what
was already naturally there.
>>And these people,
the ancients,
didn't have, necessarily,
magnetometers or voltmeters.
They got it naturally.
They were able--
the shamanic forces.
>>Exactly.
They were able to
naturally pick it up.
And I don't necessarily
believe that everybody
in a particular
ancient society was
willing to do that or able
to do that, I should say,
but certainly some people were.
I think we have this
still in society today.
But one of the differences
is that, in our sort
of rationalistic, mechanistic
society, anyone that
claims to be able to
feel things or pick up
certain sensations, as
a general rule of thumb,
modern, sort of traditional,
status quo society sort of
laughs that off or, you
know, they're a little flaky,
they're a little questionable.
It's not that hard
to do and it's not
that hard to do
and replicate it.
And what you see
in other societies,
both contemporary
traditional societies
and ancient
societies, I believe,
is that people who had that
ability well-developed,
they were held in high
esteem rather than being,
in some cases, I hate to
say it, in modern societies,
essentially being put in the
lunatic asylum or, at least,
suggested that they
should be there.
>>Certainly, and
often these people
were the priests
or the priestesses
or the shamans of the culture
and even into the Royalty,
which there's come indication
that they were actually
initiates.
>>Exactly, exactly, initiates.
And these were people that were
held in very, very high regard
versus the opposite
that I'm afraid we
see in modern
early 21st society,
generally-- not necessarily
people of a certain perception
that I see at, for
instance, CPAK.
>>It's considered
esoteric still right now.
But it's becoming
more broad-based.
I think people are beginning
to get these-- they understand
something feels a certain way.
So if you don't mind--
because you spent so much time
in Egypt doing the incredible
work that we know you
for-- let's focus a bit on the
pyramid-- the Great Pyramid,
for example-- some of
the chambers and shafts
and so forth.
Do you have some
specific ideas that
are starting to sound
more real to you
as to what these areas
might have been used for?
>>More and more, I
think, OK, besides-- I
think there's two major
functions that were happening
in the Great Pyramid-- not
necessarily simultaneously.
In fact, I don't think they were
simultaneous at all temporally.
And neither has anything
to do with being a tomb.
If it was ever used
as a tomb, that was--
>>That was one expensive
tomb, number one.
>>Yes, exactly, exactly.
In the classic analogy,
I and other people
have used is, well, maybe
some people were buried there
at some point just
like cathedrals.
You have people
buried at cathedrals.
But we don't think of a
typical Western cathedral
as being primarily
a tomb for a person
or a tomb for several people.
So two major things I
think that are going on
with the Great
Pyramid-- one is that it
was used at early stage-- and
what I mean by early stage,
before it looked like a
pyramid as we know it now,
when it was essentially a
platform up to the 50th level
or so-- the grand gallery
was open to the southern sky.
I think it was used
for what we would now
call astronomical purposes.
Back then, it might
have been more
what could be
considered, shall we say,
astronomical-astrological
purposes.
And what I mean by
that is not horoscopes
on an individual level
but tying the world
into the larger cosmos.
>>The ages and constellations.
>>The ages, the constellations,
the larger cosmos,
and the larger cycle.
And I think it's amazing how
we are finding data today--
in some cases very subtle--
but that our relationship,
the relationship of the Earth,
and a person on the Earth,
and the horizon of the
Earth at a certain time,
relative, for instance,
to the galaxy,
in the center of
the galaxy, actually
has a subtle but
significant effect
on our perception and
our consciousness.
>>I was going to
ask you that next.
Can you expand on that,
because that's fascinating?
And that's really what
this conference is about,
in essence, is the procession
of the equinox, which ties in.
>>So I think these
large cosmic cycles--
we are finding that they have a
subtle but important influence
on consciousness.
And where you see this is
on the boundaries-- what
I would call the boundaries
between the conventional--
for instance, language
and talk and discussion--
and what some people would
call intuitive aspects
of consciousness,
other people would call
paranormal aspects of
consciousness, some people--
one term that's used
for some of this,
at least, is telepathic
communication.
And what I mean by that is
not literal-- one person
reads another person's
mind-- but one person
knows something sort of
instinctually about someone
else who is maybe-- in most
cases-- close to them--
personal friend or
family, that type
of thing-- without the
normal channels of sense.
And this is
something that people
laughed at for a long
time, in certain circles,
but it's also been
taken very seriously
in certain circles--
rigorous scientific studies
for a century now-- many
decades-- for a century or more
now have been carried out--
that yes, it may be weak.
It may be a very weak signal.
It may be swamped
over by other things
in our current state of
consciousness, but it is there.
And furthermore,
this weak signal
is correlated with these cosmic
changes and these changes
and these are
positioning, for instance,
relative to the bigger galaxy,
the bigger universe, which
is quite amazing.
>>It is amazing.
I'm seeing people like
yourself and others
that we've talked to-- people
who are steeped in science,
rigorous science-- are now
saying, but hold on a minute,
I've had these experiences.
>>And also, it's very
interesting-- I've pointed this
out in various talks
I've given-- that, to me,
it's amazing, as
a scientist, when
you get certain
sets of data-- data
that was accumulated
over a period of more
than 100 years of what we'll
call anomalous experiences,
we'll call it telepathic
experiences-- typical cases are
crisis experiences
where a mother realizes,
she just instinctually
knows that something's
wrong with her child.
Her child is hundreds
of miles away.
She has no reason to
think the child is sick
or has an accident, but she
just knows something happened.
And then that's confirmed,
that that very time, the child
broke his arm or was in
an accident or, worst case
scenario, deceased.
And there are many rigorous,
well-corroborated cases
like this.
I mean, do we just dismiss them?
>>Most of us know someone
who has had this experience.
Or most of us have probably
had this experience ourself
if we were to admit it.
>>Exactly.
And the typical
rational explanation
is they're just
coincidence or it's fraud
or it's faulty
recollections, not
that anyone is trying to
deceive someone purposefully--
but they forgot that they had
heard about it first and then--
and then thought about it.
But there are many
well-documented cases,
especially-- and I find
it very interesting--
especially late 19th century
cases-- before telephone,
before telegraphs when
people were writing letters.
And it can be very
well-documented.
So you have a data
set like that.
Then, you have
independently, for instance,
a data set of geomagnetic
fluctuations on Earth.
And when one starts to
correlate with the other one,
to me, that's a very powerful
situation that very much says,
well, this is a real phenomenon
in the physical world
that is subject to
physical parameters
and whatever is happening.
And it's not a radio signal.
And who knows what
it is but these
are large cyclical shifts.
But physical parameters
in the external world
are affecting whatever
is going on here.
What are experiences
are, our consciousness.
>>And the nature of this
particular conference
is talking from many different
angles about the procession
and what its influence on
mankind, on consciousness,
bringing ancient
knowledge forward.
So what about the other part?
Go back to the--
>>The Great Pyramid,
I was about to say.
>>Back to the Great Pyramid
and that sarcophagus
that couldn't get squeezed
through the opening
into that chamber.
>>So I think-- and
going back to what
we're saying-- there's
two basic points I'll
make about the Great Pyramid.
Now, one is that it was used for
astronomical observations tying
to the larger cycle.
The second, I think, is that
they are demonstrating--
the builders of
the Great Pyramid
are demonstrating incredible
feats of building, of coding,
shall we say, a concept, if you
want to call it information.
I don't know that
they were trying
to get specific information to
us as much as a general concept
that there--
>>They're embedding some
information in that for future.
>>Exactly, some
information future--
but sort of telling us that
the world was different
back then so that we can have a
concept that it wasn't just-- I
hate to use the term--
but it wasn't just
a bunch of primitive people.
And I think this ties in with
what I would see as another
function of the Great Pyramid,
which is for ritualistic
purposes-- I'll call
it that-- to, again,
enhance consciousness and
to bring that enhancement
to an individual
that's experiencing it,
to go into the Great Pyramid--
which I've been there many
times in all the
different chambers and--
>>Have you had some
experiences yourself in there?
>>Yeah, yeah, it's a very--
I'll say it this way--
very interesting place.
>>Napoleon spent a night
in that sarcophagus
and said it was the most
frightening experience.
>>Exactly, and Napoleon
never really-- he
was unwilling to
really talk in detail
about exactly what
he experienced.
And this is Napoleon.
And he had strange experiences.
In the subterranean
chamber underneath,
well underneath the Great
Pyramid, which I think
is probably the
earliest chamber,
the earliest part of it?
>>And when would you date that?
Roughly how many years
ago, the earliest part?
Just, from what you know now.
>>Oh, that's really
hard to know.
I mean, I think it definitely
goes into Predynastic time--
so definitely 3500 or more
BC, just as a rough estimate
but could be older.
I mean, it's really hard to say.
But I think the main
point is that you're
talking with the Great
Pyramid, as with so many
incredible structures of
religious significance--
I'll use that term.
You were talking a sacred site.
You were talking for
the Great Pyramid, what
was a sacred mound
that they dug into when
they did the descending passage.
So they made the
descending passage
before the superstructure,
before what we now
know as the pyramid--
there was a sacred mound.
They built a descending
passage, going
into what's known as the
subterranean chamber.
And I think they spent a
lot of time and energy--
and that is perfectly
aligned, north and the south--
and I mean, they weren't
doing this just randomly.
And many people have
expressed that they
have very powerful
experiences, to this day,
in the subterranean chambers.
So I think this is a
very ancient mound, very
ancient chamber.
And then, later, I believe that
they were adding to this mound.
They were building
the superstructure.
They were building it to use
as a astronomical observatory
but also continued religious
purposes, ritualistic purposes,
and what I would call initiation
purposes-- all of which,
I feel, are to increase
cyclical phenomena,
increase awareness, increase
consciousness, and increase
our tie-- conscious and
sub-conscious and unconscious--
tie to the larger picture,
the cosmos, the galaxies,
the universe.
>>And what do you see?
Where are we right
now, as a species,
in this whole continuum?
>>Hopefully, we're
ascending up again.
Because I think we've
gone through a stage
and we're coming
out of a stage that
was incredibly materialistic.
And I'm not saying there's
anything wrong with materialism
to a certain extent.
I mean, there's been
incredible benefits
brought by modern technology
and modern society.
But when you lose sight of
other values and other aspects,
those incredible benefits
can be turned for the worse.
>>So do you think it
might be to our interest
to start seeking out
places that are known
for this magnetic or
geomagnetic kind of energetic?
>>I think so.
I think, in general, it
might be beneficial to start
seeking out-- yeah.
>>Make pilgrimages.
>>Yeah, pilgrimages.
And go back to pilgrimages
and the concept
of sacred sites which do tie
in with these geomagnetic
anomalies, in many cases.
But just start
becoming more aware
of the concept of the sacred,
the concept of consciousness.
And what I mean by that is
consciousness connectivity
between individuals and from
humans to the rest of life,
to the rest of the
universe, ultimately,
the rest of the cosmos.
We have to realize, I
think-- and we're only
starting to learn this-- that
what goes through one person's
head doesn't stay there.
And this is a radical
notion, but it
seems to be supported
by everything
from certain interpretations
of quantum physics and quantum
mechanics to what we're
seeing with these large-scale,
consistent-- subtle but
consistent-- and statistically
significant patterns of how
we're all tied together.
And we don't live in
a vacuum whatsoever.
And that was very much
the predominant paradigm,
I think, in the past, that
individuals lived in vacuums
and you could control--
in a physical sense--
how you interacted.
But what was going through your
head, what you were thinking,
what your intentions
were-- didn't necessarily
affect anything else.
And that's not true.
It's not true, at all.
>>It's amazing just how
much even this conference
has changed in one year's time.
And next year, even
more people will
feel good about coming out
and speaking of these things.
>>Absolutely.
So I hope it's
growing exponentially.
>>From last year to this year,
I think it was a quantum leap.
And it was wonderful
seeing you here.
And thank you so
much for your time.
>>Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
>>If you're curious about the
topic of the new Egyptology
as being presented by
a number of academics,
you won't want to
miss our interview
with his colleague, John Anthony
West, who also puts forth
that the pyramids were built
in much more ancient times
than believed and
for great purpose.
While attending the
CPAK conference,
we also had a chance to speak
with Richard Hoagland, author
of "The Monuments of Mars."
I think you'll
like that one, too.
Until next time,
thanks for watching.